# Orthography of the Name OpenSoundControl

<small>by Matt Wright, March 2021</small>


**tl;dr** Matt likes "OpenSoundControl" but there could be spaces
in either or both word breaks.

What has been and should be the
[orthography](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Orthography) of the
three-word name "Open Sound Control"? Each of the three words is
always capitalized, and the abbreviation "OSC" is always correct.
However there has been (complete) historical inconsistency in whether
to separate the words with spaces or join them with
[CamelCase](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Camel_case).

## History

The [1997 ICMC
paper](publications/1997-Open-SoundControl-A-New-Protocol-for-Communicating-with-Sound-Synthesizers.html)
introduced OSC to the world as "Open SoundControl", with a space
between the first two words and CamelCase connecting the last two.

The [1998 ICMC
paper](publications/1998-Implementation-and-Performance-Issues-with-OpenSound-Control.html)
consistently did the opposite: "OpenSound Control".  (This might have
been part of some attempt at a portfolio of "OpenSound" items,
including not just Control but [World](http://osw.sourceforge.net) and
perhaps others.)  The paper also introduced the all-CamelCase
"OpenSoundControl," but only as part of a
[URL](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/URL).

The [2002 OSC Spec 1.0](spec-1_0.html) used the remaining alternative,
"Open Sound Control" as three separate words with spaces.
([Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Open_Sound_Control) too.)

The 2007 original OpenSoundControl.org website strictly used "OSC"
except in the (all-one-word,
[case-insensitive](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Case_sensitivity))
domain name.

In summary, every alternative has been used and none can be considered
strictly wrong. 

Given that URLs can't contain spaces, **OpenSoundControl** is here
forever, plus that's the least-misinterpretable way to write it (e.g.,
for web search), so as of 2021 this is Matt Wright's favorite.


## Other Considerations

It's annoying for search results to be instructions telling you to
open the Windows "Control Panel" named "Sound".  That argues against
"Open Sound Control."

Csound's simplest oscillator was named `osc` but perhaps thanks to
OpenSoundControl is [now named
`oscil`](http://www.csounds.com/manual/html/oscil.html). I guess we
won that one?
