## Pre-How to : pd-extended + libOSC on Ubuntu Karmic (or else) 64 Bits

::: {.content}
Hi, I\'m new here so I\'m not sure if the topic is in the right place
\^\^

As you may know, pure data extended has a lot of different packages for
almost any 32 bits distro, but not for a single 64 bits one. In order to
make pd-extended work under a 64 bits OS, the easiest trick is to use
the i386 packages and install the lib32 manually or with getlibs. I am
going to write a little tut\' about that, but here comes a second issue.

I\'d like to use libOSC library in pd. Actually, just \'sendOSC\' and
\'dumpOSC\' commands.\
Basically, in orded to use an iPhone as a wireless MIDI controller on
Ubuntu. The most known iPhone app to do that is
[TouchOSC](http://hexler.net/software/touchosc) and it comes with a set
of pre-written pd scripts ( [this
one](http://hexler.net/mint/pepper/orderedlist/downloads/download.php?file=http%3A//hexler.net/pub/touchosc/basic.pd)
for instance ). Nevertheless, I didn\'t manage to compile OSCx libs.
I\'ve grabbed a tar package
[there](http://pure-data.svn.sourceforge.net/vi%20…%20z?view=tar) but
I haven\'t figured out how to compile it. README says :

tar zxvf OSCx.tgz\
cd OSCx\
cat README\
cd libOSC && make\
cd ../OSC && \"adjust makefile\" && make OSC && make install\
cd ../..\
pd -lib OSC OSCx/doc/OSC-help.pd\

but basically, command \'make\' in /libOSC/ doesn\'t work. There\'s just
a \'Makefike.in\' but it doesn\'t want to be ran by the command make.
Then I\'ve tried to chmod +x Makefile.in and rename it as \'makefile\'
but then comes a bunch of errors :

`        cc -c @CFLAGS@ @INCLUDES@  OSC-client.c        cc: @CFLAGS@: Aucun fichier ou dossier de ce type  (means that there's no folder named like this  )        cc: @INCLUDES@: Aucun fichier ou dossier de ce type ( the same )        OSC-client.c:79: warning: conflicting types for built-in function ‘strlen’        make: *** [libOSC.a(OSC-client.o)] Erreur 1       `

So what should I do in orded to manage to compile libOSC ?

Thanks a lot.

Regards

Leo Tomas.
:::
