## An OSC Address Subspace for Wacom Tablet Data

::: {.content}
Wacom digitizing graphic tablets are attractive gestural interfaces for
real-time computer music. They provide extremely accurate
two-dimensional absolute position sensing of a stylus, along with
measurements of pressure, two-dimensional tilt, and the state of the
switches on the side of the stylus, with reasonably low latency. The
styli (pens) are two-sided, with a \"tip\" and an \"eraser.\" The
tablets also support other devices, including a mouse-like \"puck,\" and
can be used with two devices simultaneously.

Unfortunately, this measurement data comes from the Wacom drivers in an
inconvenient form. Each of the five continuous parameters is available
independently, but another parameter, the \"device type,\" indicates
what kind of device is being used and, for the case of pens, whether the
tip or eraser is being used. For a program to have different behavior
based on which end of the pen is used, there must be a switching and
gating mechanism to route the continuous parameters to the correct
processing based on the \"device type.\" Similarly, the tablet senses
position and tilt even when the pen is not touching the tablet, so a
program that behaves differently based on whether or not the pen is
touching the tablet must examine another variable to properly dispatch
the continuous parameters.

Instead of simply providing the raw data from the Wacom drivers, our
**Wacom-OSC** object outputs OSC messages with different addresses for
the different states. For example, if the eraser end of the pen is
currently touching the tablet, **Wacom-OSC** continuously outputs
messages whose address is /eraser/drawing and whose arguments are the
current values of position, tilt, and pressure. At the moment the eraser
end of the pen is released from the tablet, **Wacom-OSC** outputs the
message /eraser/release . As long as the eraser is within range of the
tablet surface, **Wacom-OSC** continuously outputs messages with the
address /eraser/hovering and the same position, tilt, and pressure
arguments.

With this scheme, all of the dispatching on the \"device type\"
variables is done once and for all inside **Wacom-OSC** , and hidden
from the interface designer. The interface designer simply uses the
existing mechanisms for routing OSC messages to map the different pen
states to different musical behaviors.

We use another level of OSC addressing to define distinct behaviors for
different regions of the tablet. The interface designer creates a data
structure giving the names and locations of any number of regions on the
tablet surface. An object called **Wacom-Regions** takes the OSC
messages from **Wacom-OSC** and prepends the appropriate region name for
events that occur in the region.

For example, suppose the pen is drawing within a region named \"foo.\"
**Wacom-OSC** outputs the message /tip/drawing with arguments giving the
current pen position, tilt, and pressure. **Wacom-Regions** looks up
this current pen position in the data structure of all the regions and
sees that the pen is currently in region \"foo,\" so it outputs the
message /foo/tip/drawing with the same arguments. Now the standard OSC
message routing mechanisms can dispatch these messages to the part of
the program that implements the behavior of the region \"foo.\"

Once again tedious programming work is hidden from the interface
designer, whose job is simply to take OSC messages describing tablet
gestures and map them to musical control.

::: {.forum-topic-navigation .clear-block}
[‹ Control of VST plug-ins using
OSC](topic/48 "Go to previous forum topic"){.topic-previous} [Reducing
dimensionality for multipoint touch surfaces
›](topic/62 "Go to next forum topic"){.topic-next}
:::
:::
