::: {.content}
I\'ve just got a half-size [continuum
fingerboard](http://www.hakenaudio.com/Continuum/) , and I\'m now in the
process of implementing basic Max patches for interpreting incoming MIDI
so that it can be used to control sound processes as flexible as
possible. It makes sense to do so using the OSC protocol. But before
finishing of the patches I\'m wondering if there are any standard
practice for how to design the name space. The continuum transmit
various MIDI messages (note on, CC, pitch bend) but converting into x-,
y-, z-positions is fairly trivial. The fingerboard is multiphonic, able
to keep track of up to 10 fingers at the same time. When using the data
to control a polyphonic synth, it will be important to keep track of the
various voices.

Alexander Refsum Jensenius has pointed me in the direction of the
article \"Managing Complexity with Explicit Mapping of Gestures to Sound
control with OSC\" by Wright et. al. Based on the discussions of the OSC
address subspace for the wacom as well as the hexaphonic guitar
processing, and my own reasoning, the following namespace seems
practical.

/n/x - x position for the nth voice, 1â‰¤nâ‰¤10\
/n/y - Y position for the nth voice\
/n/z - Z position (pressure) for the nth voice\
/n/active - boolean value to indicate if the nth voice is active or not.
1 when a finger touch the fingerboard, 0 when it is removed form the
fingerboard again\>

The range for /n/y and /n/z can be scaled to \[0,1\], but for /n/x it
makes more sense to keep the range equivalent to the (float) MIDI pitch
values represented by the fignerboard.

My two questions are:

1\) Do this name space seem reasonable?\
2) Is there any central repository or online directory overview of
patches for mapping various control interfaces to OSC in MaxMSP?

Alexander Refsum Jensenius has made OSC wrappers for several interfaces.
The paper by Wright et al. seems to suggest that more patches do exist.
Maybe it would be a good idea to try to gather them all in the same
place instead of having them scattered over a wide range of libraries of
3rd part MaxMSP externals/abstractions?

Thanks,\
Trond

::: {.forum-topic-navigation .clear-block}
[‹ MIDI address
space](topic/97 "Go to previous forum topic"){.topic-previous} [Possible
OSC support in Jamoma
›](topic/73 "Go to next forum topic"){.topic-next}
:::
:::
