::: {.content}
We are currently considering changing syntax for control messages in
[Jamoma](http://www.jamoma.org/) to be OSC-compatible. (Jamoma is a
proposition of a clear structure and common features for building max
patches, reducing the amount of time needed to create new performance
systems, and enhancing the interchange of patches amongst max users).
One of the issues we could need some help clarifying is how to best
translate current syntax into OSC-compatible syntax.

With the current syntax, you would send the following message to an
audio module in order to instantly change midi gain:

gain\_midi 127

For relevant parameters it is possible to ramp to a new value over a
specifiec amount of time. E.g. to ramp to midi gain 127 in 3 secs. you
would send the following message:

gain\_midi 127 3000

If we decide to change the syntax to be OSC-compatible it is pretty
straight forward what syntax should be when instantly changing midi
gain:

/gain\_midi 127

What syntax would be recommended in the case that gain instead is to
ramp to a new value over 3 secs?

The following would be the most straight forward translation:

/gain\_midi 127 3000

Then again I\'m wondering if a separate namespace would be
required/preferred for ramp time. This might be easy to read, but could
possible require more and less intuitive typing in cue scripts (e.g.
should ramp always be reset to 0?):

/gain\_midi/ramp 3000\
/gain\_midi/value 127

In his presentation at the 2004 OSC conference, James McCartney seems to
indicate the use of a single level name space, and hashed commands in
SuperCollider:

/gain\_midi 127 ramp 3000

Are there any official guidelines to inform us on what of these possible
syntaxes would be recomended?

Thanks,\
Trond

::: {.forum-topic-navigation .clear-block}
[‹ OSC Address Subspace for Continuum
Fingerboard](topic/72 "Go to previous forum topic"){.topic-previous}
[Control of VST plug-ins using OSC
›](topic/48 "Go to next forum topic"){.topic-next}
:::
:::
